fix: Update the lovable tutorial (#3801)
Scalingo/documentation: src/_tutorials/lovable/index.md

logo: lovable
category: migration-to-scalingo
permalink: /tutorials/lovable
modified_at: 2026-06-11
---

> [Lovable][lovable-website] is an AI app builder that helps you create web applications from natural language prompts. It generates frontend code built with the [Vite][vite-website] and [TanStack][tanstack-website] frameworks.

Reviewer: issue: I think Nitro needs to be introduced:

```suggestion
[Lovable][lovable-website] is an AI app builder that helps you create web applications from natural language prompts. It generates frontend code built with the [Vite][vite-website], [Nitro][nitro-website] and [TanStack][tanstack-website] frameworks.

[...bottom of page...]
[nitro-website]: https://nitro.build/
```

question: if I understand well, Nitro is only used during build, and creates files in `$HOME/.output/server/`, right? So it's not required at runtime?

Author: Yes Nitro is only used during build for generating the files

logo: lovable
category: migration-to-scalingo
permalink: /tutorials/lovable
modified_at: 2026-06-11
---

[Lovable][lovable-website] is an AI app builder that helps you create web applications from natural language prompts. It generates frontend code

> based on the [Vite][vite-website] framework and [TanStack][tanstack-website] framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
built with the [Vite][vite-website] and [TanStack][tanstack-website] frameworks.
```

3. Create a `Procfile` at the root of your project with the following content:
   ```bash
   web: node .output/server/index.mjs
  ```
   This instructs the platform to start the Node.js server generated by `Nitro`. The server listens on the port provided by the `PORT` environment variable.

4. Update Nitro in your package.json file. Make sure your `devDependencies` contain: 

   ```json
   {
     "devDependencies": {

>        "nitro": "^3.0.260603-beta"

Reviewer 3: suggestion: I'm not keen on relying on a beta version in our documentation. Would it be possible to stick with the last stable version which is v2?

Author: We need the v3 version, the v2 don't work

>    ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```json
```

      }
   }

>    ```

Reviewer: Formatting:
```suggestion
   ```json
   {
     "devDependencies": {
       "nitro": "^3.0.260603-beta"
     }
   }
   ```
```

      
   This version is required so the Lovable Vite config can generate the correct production server.

5. Configure Vite to build a Node.js server for production. In your `vite.config.ts`, add the Nitro node-server preset:

   ```ts
   import { defineConfig } from "@lovable.dev/vite-tanstack-config";

>    export default defineConfig({
>    nitro: {
>       preset: "node-server",
>    },
>    });

Reviewer: Formatting:
```suggestion
   export default defineConfig({
     nitro: {
      preset: "node-server",
     },
   });
```

3. Create a `Procfile` at the root of your project with the following content:
   ```bash
   web: node .output/server/index.mjs
  ```
   This instructs the platform to start the Node.js server generated by `Nitro`. The server listens on the port provided by the `PORT` environment variable.

4. Update Nitro in your package.json file. Make sure your `devDependencies` contain: 

   ```bash
         {
      "devDependencies": {

>          "nitro": "^3.0.260603-beta"

Reviewer 2: This version is very specific, can't we use a more general notation?

Author: I tried, but didn't succeeded to have a more general range, it the minimum version of nitro to use for the deploy to work

- `Procfile`
- `package.json`

> - `package-lock.json`

Reviewer: question: why don't we need the `package-lock.json` anymore?

Author: We no longer need package-lock.json for the deployment to pass because Scalingo installs dependencies directly from package.json, but without a lockfile the exact versions are no longer pinned.

Author: and we don't move devDependencies to Dependencies  now
